README.md, before:

<div align="center">
    <img src="net_icon.png" alt="NetArmyKn1f3 Logo" width="450"/>
</div>

# NetArmyKn1f3: A Network Analysis & Visualization Suite

**Author**: Anna Booker
**Version**: 1.0.0
**Date**: 2024-07-13

---

## 1. Overview

NetArmyKn1f3 is an advanced, JavaFX-based desktop application engineered for comprehensive network analysis, scanning, and visualization. It serves as an integrated command center for network administrators, cybersecurity professionals, and technology enthusiasts. The suite provides a rich graphical user interface (GUI) to simplify complex networking tasks such as host discovery, port scanning, OS fingerprinting, and visualizing network topologies and traceroute paths.

The application is built on a modular architecture, separating concerns between UI controllers, networking services, and data models. It leverages the power of industry-standard command-line tools like `nmap` and `traceroute`, parsing their output into structured data that powers interactive, D3.js-based visualizations within a JavaFX WebView.

---

## 2. Core Features

The application's functionality is organized into three primary modules, each accessible via a dedicated tab in the main window.

### 2.1. System Information

This module provides a real-time, at-a-glance dashboard of the local machine's network configuration and operating system details.

-   **Network Interface Enumeration**: Lists all detected network interfaces (e.g., `en0`, `lo0`, `eth0`). For each interface, it displays critical information such as IPv4/IPv6 addresses and the hardware MAC address.
-   **Operating System Synopsis**: Displays essential OS details, including name (e.g., macOS, Windows, Linux), version, and system architecture (e.g., `aarch64`, `x86_64`).

### 2.2. Network Probe

The Network Probe module is designed for in-depth analysis of a single, specified remote target. It is the primary tool for visualizing the Layer 3 path that network traffic takes from the local machine to a destination host across the internet.

-   **Target-Specific Analysis**: Accepts a hostname (e.g., `google.com`) or an IP address (e.g., `8.8.8.8`) as input.
-   **Automated Traceroute Execution**: Performs a `traceroute` to the destination, capturing each intermediate router (hop) along the network path.
-   **Dual-View Results Interface**:
    -   **Raw Results View**: Presents the complete, unfiltered command-line output from the underlying network probes for expert review and debugging.
    -   **Topology Map View**: Renders a dynamic, interactive graph of the traceroute path using a **force-directed layout**. This visualization clearly illustrates the journey of packets from the gateway (red node) through intermediate hops (blue nodes) to the final destination (green node).

### 2.3. Network Scanner

This module is a powerful discovery tool for mapping devices and services on the local network.

-   **Flexible Scan Configuration**: Supports CIDR notation (e.g., `192.168.1.0/24`) and IP ranges (e.g., `192.168.1.100-150`) for defining scan targets.
-   **Multiple Scan Modalities**:
    -   **Ping Sweep**: A fast scan to identify active hosts on the network.
    -   **Port Scan**: Scans for common open ports on discovered hosts.
    -   **Full Scan**: A comprehensive deep scan combining host discovery, port scanning, service version detection, and OS fingerprinting.
-   **Advanced Analysis Options**:
    -   **Hostname Resolution**: Resolves IP addresses to hostnames where possible.
    -   **Service & OS Detection**: Identifies services on open ports and estimates the host's operating system.
    -   **Local Traceroute**: Traces the path to discovered hosts.
-   **Interactive Data Visualization**:
    -   **Bidirectional Map-Table Interactivity**: The results table and the network map are bidirectionally linked. Clicking a node on the map highlights the corresponding row in the table, and vice versa. This allows for seamless exploration of scan results.
    -   **Switchable Graph Layouts**: A dropdown menu allows the user to switch between two different D3.js-powered layouts for the network map:
        -   **Ring Layout**: Organizes hosts in clean, concentric circles, providing a structured and orderly view.
        -   **Force-Directed Layout**: Utilizes a physics-based simulation where nodes repel each other, revealing natural network clusters and topology.

---

## 3. Architecture and Design

The application adheres to a modern, modular design pattern, promoting separation of concerns and maintainability.

### 3.1. Technical Stack

-   **Language**: Java 17
-   **Framework**: JavaFX (via OpenJFX)
-   **Dependency Injection**: Google Guice
-   **Build System**: Apache Maven
-   **Visualization**: D3.js v7, rendered within a JavaFX WebView
-   **Core Networking Tools**: `nmap`, `traceroute`, `ifconfig`/`ip` (interfaced via `SystemToolsManager`)

### 3.2. High-Level Architecture

The architecture is composed of three main layers:

1.  **Presentation Layer (Controllers & FXML)**: Manages the user interface, defines the layout in FXML, and handles user input. Controllers are responsible for orchestrating calls to the service layer and updating the view with results.
2.  **Service Layer**: Encapsulates the core business logic. Services like `NetworkScannerService` and `SystemToolsManager` are responsible for executing external processes, parsing their output, and returning structured data models.
3.  **Data Layer (Models)**: A set of POJOs (Plain Old Java Objects) like `NetworkHost` and `ScanConfiguration` that represent the application's data structures.

### 3.3. Key Components

-   **`AppModule` (Dependency Injection)**: Configures bindings for Google Guice, ensuring that dependencies are automatically injected throughout the application. This promotes loose coupling.
-   **`*Controller` Classes**: (e.g., `NetworkScannerController`, `NetworkProbeController`) Mediate between the FXML views and the backend services. They handle UI events, trigger scans, and populate UI components with data.
-   **`SystemToolsManager`**: A critical service that acts as a wrapper for executing command-line tools (`nmap`, `traceroute`). It handles process creation, captures `stdout` and `stderr`, and provides a unified interface for running system commands.
-   **`NetworkVisualizationService`**: The bridge between the Java backend and the D3.js frontend. It loads the HTML/JS/CSS for the visualization into a `WebView`, generates the required JSON data from the scan results, and uses the `JSObject` bridge to pass data to the JavaScript environment and render the graphs.
-   **`NetworkScannerService`**: Orchestrates network scans by constructing the correct `nmap` commands based on user configuration, executing them via `SystemToolsManager`, and parsing the XML output into a list of `NetworkHost` objects.

### 3.4. JavaFX-JavaScript Bridge

A key architectural feature is the communication between the JavaFX application and the D3.js visualization running inside a `WebView`.

-   **Java to JavaScript**: Java calls JavaScript functions using `webEngine.executeScript()`. This is how the `NetworkVisualizationService` passes the network graph data (as a JSON string) to D3.js for rendering.
-   **JavaScript to Java**: A Java object (an instance of a `JavaBridge` class) is exposed to the JavaScript environment using `webEngine.getLoadWorker().stateProperty().addListener(...)` and `JSObject.setMember()`. This allows JavaScript event handlers (e.g., `onClick` on a D3 node) to call Java methods, enabling features like map-to-table selection.

---

## 4. How to Build and Run

The project is managed with Maven, simplifying the build process.

### 4.1. Prerequisites

-   **Java JDK 17** or newer.
-   **Apache Maven** 3.6 or newer.
-   **System Tools**: Ensure that `nmap` and `traceroute` are installed on your system and accessible in your system's PATH.
    -   **macOS (Homebrew)**: `brew install nmap`
    -   **Debian/Ubuntu**: `sudo apt-get install nmap traceroute`
    -   **Windows**: Download and install Nmap from the official website (which includes `ncat` for traceroute functionality).

### 4.2. Build & Execution

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/annabook21/NetArmyKn1f3.git
    cd NetArmyKn1f3
    ```

2.  Build the project and run the application using the Maven JavaFX plugin:
    ```sh
    mvn clean javafx:run
    ```

This command will compile the source code, resolve dependencies, and launch the application.

---

## 5. Creating Native Installers

This project is configured to create native, self-contained installers for macOS, Windows, and Linux using the `jpackage` tool, managed via the `jpackage-maven-plugin`.

### 5.1. Build Command

To create an installer for your current operating system, run the following Maven command:

```sh
mvn clean package jpackage:jpackage
```

The installer will be created in the `target/dist/` directory.

### 5.2. Platform-Specific Prerequisites

To build the installer, `jpackage` has some platform-specific dependencies that must be installed first.

-   **macOS**:
    -   **Prerequisite**: Xcode command-line tools.
    -   **Installation**: `xcode-select --install`
    -   **Installer Type**: `.dmg`
    -   **Icon Format**: The build requires an `.icns` file. A `.png` file is provided, which you will need to convert.

-   **Windows**:
    -   **Prerequisite**: WiX Toolset.
    -   **Installation**: Download and install from the [WiX Toolset website](https://wixtoolset.org/).
    -   **Installer Type**: `.msi`
    -   **Icon Format**: The build requires an `.ico` file.

-   **Linux**:
    -   **Prerequisite**: `dpkg-deb` for `.deb` packages or `rpm-build` for `.rpm` packages.
    -   **Installation (Debian/Ubuntu)**: `sudo apt-get install build-essential`
    -   **Installer Type**: `.deb`
    -   **Icon Format**: `.png` (works as is)

---

## 6. Future Enhancements

-   **Packet Analysis Module**: Implement live packet capture and dissection using a library like Pcap4j.
-   **Persistent Scan History**: Save scan results to a local database (e.g., SQLite) to allow for historical comparison and analysis.
-   **Customizable Nmap Scripts**: Allow users to leverage the Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE) for more advanced vulnerability and discovery scans.
-   **Export Functionality**: Add options to export scan results and visualizations to common formats (e.g., CSV, PDF, PNG).

Commit message:

Fix hping3 installation on macOS using draftbrew/tap/hping
- Updated SystemToolsManager to use working third-party Homebrew tap
- Removed manual installation fallback since automated install now works
- Added PacketCrafter functionality for hping3 interface
- Improved cross-platform tool installation and detection
- Enhanced installation dialog with accurate feedback

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
    <img src="net_icon.png" alt="NetArmyKn1f3 Logo" width="450"/>
</div>

# NetArmyKn1f3: A Network Analysis & Visualization Suite

**Author**: Anna Booker
**Version**: 1.0.0
**Date**: 2024-07-13

---

## 1. Overview

NetArmyKn1f3 is an advanced, JavaFX-based desktop application engineered for comprehensive network analysis, scanning, and visualization. It serves as an integrated command center for network administrators, cybersecurity professionals, and technology enthusiasts. The suite provides a rich graphical user interface (GUI) to simplify complex networking tasks such as host discovery, port scanning, OS fingerprinting, and visualizing network topologies and traceroute paths.

The application is built on a modular architecture, separating concerns between UI controllers, networking services, and data models. It leverages the power of industry-standard command-line tools like `nmap` and `traceroute`, parsing their output into structured data that powers interactive, D3.js-based visualizations within a JavaFX WebView.

---

## 2. Core Features

The application's functionality is organized into three primary modules, each accessible via a dedicated tab in the main window.

### 2.1. System Information

This module provides a real-time, at-a-glance dashboard of the local machine's network configuration and operating system details.

-   **Network Interface Enumeration**: Lists all detected network interfaces (e.g., `en0`, `lo0`, `eth0`). For each interface, it displays critical information such as IPv4/IPv6 addresses and the hardware MAC address.
-   **Operating System Synopsis**: Displays essential OS details, including name (e.g., macOS, Windows, Linux), version, and system architecture (e.g., `aarch64`, `x86_64`).

### 2.2. Network Probe

The Network Probe module is designed for in-depth analysis of a single, specified remote target. It is the primary tool for visualizing the Layer 3 path that network traffic takes from the local machine to a destination host across the internet.

-   **Target-Specific Analysis**: Accepts a hostname (e.g., `google.com`) or an IP address (e.g., `8.8.8.8`) as input.
-   **Automated Traceroute Execution**: Performs a `traceroute` to the destination, capturing each intermediate router (hop) along the network path.
-   **Automated Path Analysis**: Performs a `traceroute` or `mtr` (My Traceroute) to the destination. `mtr` provides a richer, real-time view of packet loss and latency at each hop.
-   **Dual-View Results Interface**:
    -   **Raw Results View**: Presents the complete, unfiltered command-line output from the underlying network probes for expert review and debugging.
    -   **Topology Map View**: Renders a dynamic, interactive graph of the traceroute path using a **force-directed layout**. This visualization clearly illustrates the journey of packets from the gateway (red node) through intermediate hops (blue nodes) to the final destination (green node).

### 2.3. Network Scanner

This module is a powerful discovery tool for mapping devices and services on the local network.

-   **Flexible Scan Configuration**: Supports CIDR notation (e.g., `192.168.1.0/24`) and IP ranges (e.g., `192.168.1.100-150`) for defining scan targets.
-   **Multiple Scan Modalities**:
    -   **Ping Sweep**: A fast scan to identify active hosts on the network.
    -   **Port Scan**: Scans for common open ports on discovered hosts.
    -   **Full Scan**: A comprehensive deep scan combining host discovery, port scanning, service version detection, and OS fingerprinting.
-   **Advanced Analysis Options**:
    -   **Hostname Resolution**: Resolves IP addresses to hostnames where possible.
    -   **Service & OS Detection**: Identifies services on open ports and estimates the host's operating system.
    -   **Local Traceroute**: Traces the path to discovered hosts.
-   **Interactive Data Visualization**:
    -   **Bidirectional Map-Table Interactivity**: The results table and the network map are bidirectionally linked. Clicking a node on the map highlights the corresponding row in the table, and vice versa. This allows for seamless exploration of scan results.
    -   **Switchable Graph Layouts**: A dropdown menu allows the user to switch between two different D3.js-powered layouts for the network map:
        -   **Ring Layout**: Organizes hosts in clean, concentric circles, providing a structured and orderly view.
        -   **Force-Directed Layout**: Utilizes a physics-based simulation where nodes repel each other, revealing natural network clusters and topology.

### 2.4. Packet Crafter (hping3)

This advanced module provides a direct interface to the `hping3` tool, allowing for the construction and sending of custom network packets. It is designed for experienced users who need to perform granular network tests, such as firewall rule validation or advanced port scanning. *(Note: This feature is currently under development.)*

---

## 3. Architecture and Design

The application adheres to a modern, modular design pattern, promoting separation of concerns and maintainability.

### 3.1. Technical Stack

-   **Language**: Java 17
-   **Framework**: JavaFX (via OpenJFX)
-   **Dependency Injection**: Google Guice
-   **Build System**: Apache Maven
-   **Visualization**: D3.js v7, rendered within a JavaFX WebView
-   **Core Networking Tools**: `nmap`, `traceroute`, `mtr`, `hping3`, `ifconfig`/`ip` (interfaced via `SystemToolsManager`)

### 3.2. High-Level Architecture

The architecture is composed of three main layers:

1.  **Presentation Layer (Controllers & FXML)**: Manages the user interface, defines the layout in FXML, and handles user input. Controllers are responsible for orchestrating calls to the service layer and updating the view with results.
2.  **Service Layer**: Encapsulates the core business logic. Services like `NetworkScannerService` and `SystemToolsManager` are responsible for executing external processes, parsing their output, and returning structured data models.
3.  **Data Layer (Models)**: A set of POJOs (Plain Old Java Objects) like `NetworkHost` and `ScanConfiguration` that represent the application's data structures.

### 3.3. Key Components

-   **`AppModule` (Dependency Injection)**: Configures bindings for Google Guice, ensuring that dependencies are automatically injected throughout the application. This promotes loose coupling.
-   **`*Controller` Classes**: (e.g., `NetworkScannerController`, `NetworkProbeController`) Mediate between the FXML views and the backend services. They handle UI events, trigger scans, and populate UI components with data.
-   **`SystemToolsManager`**: A critical service that acts as a wrapper for executing command-line tools (`nmap`, `traceroute`). It handles process creation, captures `stdout` and `stderr`, and provides a unified interface for running system commands.
-   **`NetworkVisualizationService`**: The bridge between the Java backend and the D3.js frontend. It loads the HTML/JS/CSS for the visualization into a `WebView`, generates the required JSON data from the scan results, and uses the `JSObject` bridge to pass data to the JavaScript environment and render the graphs.
-   **`NetworkScannerService`**: Orchestrates network scans by constructing the correct `nmap` commands based on user configuration, executing them via `SystemToolsManager`, and parsing the XML output into a list of `NetworkHost` objects.

### 3.4. JavaFX-JavaScript Bridge

A key architectural feature is the communication between the JavaFX application and the D3.js visualization running inside a `WebView`.

-   **Java to JavaScript**: Java calls JavaScript functions using `webEngine.executeScript()`. This is how the `NetworkVisualizationService` passes the network graph data (as a JSON string) to D3.js for rendering.
-   **JavaScript to Java**: A Java object (an instance of a `JavaBridge` class) is exposed to the JavaScript environment using `webEngine.getLoadWorker().stateProperty().addListener(...)` and `JSObject.setMember()`. This allows JavaScript event handlers (e.g., `onClick` on a D3 node) to call Java methods, enabling features like map-to-table selection.

---

## 4. How to Build and Run

The project is managed with Maven, simplifying the build process.

### 4.1. Prerequisites

-   **Java JDK 17** or newer.
-   **Apache Maven** 3.6 or newer.
-   **System Tools**: Ensure that `nmap`, `traceroute`, `mtr`, and `hping3` are installed on your system and accessible in your system's PATH.
    -   **macOS (Homebrew)**: `brew install nmap mtr hping3`
    -   **Debian/Ubuntu**: `sudo apt-get install nmap traceroute mtr hping3`
    -   **Windows**: These tools require more complex installation, often via projects like Nmap for Windows and WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux).

### 4.2. Build & Execution

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/annabook21/NetArmyKn1f3.git
    cd NetArmyKn1f3
    ```

2.  Build the project and run the application using the Maven JavaFX plugin:
    ```sh
    mvn clean javafx:run
    ```

This command will compile the source code, resolve dependencies, and launch the application.

---

## 5. Creating Native Installers

This project is configured to create native, self-contained installers for macOS, Windows, and Linux using the `jpackage` tool, managed via the `jpackage-maven-plugin`.

### 5.1. Build Command

To create an installer for your current operating system, run the following Maven command:

```sh
mvn clean package jpackage:jpackage
```

The installer will be created in the `target/dist/` directory.

### 5.2. Platform-Specific Prerequisites

To build the installer, `jpackage` has some platform-specific dependencies that must be installed first.

-   **macOS**:
    -   **Prerequisite**: Xcode command-line tools.
    -   **Installation**: `xcode-select --install`
    -   **Installer Type**: `.dmg`
    -   **Icon Format**: The build requires an `.icns` file. A `.png` file is provided, which you will need to convert.

-   **Windows**:
    -   **Prerequisite**: WiX Toolset.
    -   **Installation**: Download and install from the [WiX Toolset website](https://wixtoolset.org/).
    -   **Installer Type**: `.msi`
    -   **Icon Format**: The build requires an `.ico` file.

-   **Linux**:
    -   **Prerequisite**: `dpkg-deb` for `.deb` packages or `rpm-build` for `.rpm` packages.
    -   **Installation (Debian/Ubuntu)**: `sudo apt-get install build-essential`
    -   **Installer Type**: `.deb`
    -   **Icon Format**: `.png` (works as is)

---

## 6. Future Enhancements

-   **Packet Analysis Module**: Implement live packet capture and dissection using a library like Pcap4j.
-   **Persistent Scan History**: Save scan results to a local database (e.g., SQLite) to allow for historical comparison and analysis.
-   **Customizable Nmap Scripts**: Allow users to leverage the Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE) for more advanced vulnerability and discovery scans.
-   **Export Functionality**: Add options to export scan results and visualizations to common formats (e.g., CSV, PDF, PNG).
-   **Full hping3 Integration**: Build out the UI for the Packet Crafter module to expose common `hping3` flags and options in a user-friendly way.
